---
layout: post
title:  "Wuxia Weaponry"
date:   2024-05-07 00:00:00 -0000
permalink: /weapons/
categories: [Wuxia, Literature]
---
# Weapons in Chinese Fantasy 
While wuxia incorporates a wide arsenal of weapons used in ancient times, some of the genre's appeal comes from less conventional weapons and their creative applications. In wuxia, weapon and fighting style become part of character identity. To help you grasp the scope of weapons in Chinese fantasy, here's a non-exhaustive list.

## Conventional Weapons
**Dao**  
Literally translated as "knife", there are many variations of dao, some which would be classified (in English) as polearms, lances, or halberds.

**Qiang (Spear)**

**Jian (Straight Sword)**

**Gun (Staff)**

**Whip**

**Bludgeons & Hammers**

## Unconventional Weapons
Whether you've been caught unarmed or disarmed in the midst of battle, all hope has not been lost. In the world of Chinese fantasy, anything is a weapon if you're skilled enough to use it.

**Horsetail Whisks**

**Cooking Utensils**  
Woks frequently cameo as bludgeons. Chopsticks may double as blades.

**Long Flowing Sleeves**  
Swat away arrows while making a fashion statement.

**Needles**  
Lace them with deadly poison or hit specific acupuncture points to immobilize your victims.

**Bandages, Scarves, & Long Shawls**  
Commonly used to trip, lasso, and tie up opponents... or to fling scorpions at them.

**Jewelry**  
Discreet and perfect for backup in "civil" environments.

**Fans**  
Also know as deadly boomerangs.

**Fans which are also knives**

**Umbrellas**  
Often used as makeshift shields.

**Umbrellas which are also knives**

**One Drop of Water**

## Don't Have a Weapon?
Part of wuxia's thrill is watching all kinds of characters work with the resources and skills in their posession to achieve their goals. If you don't have a weapon, use your fists. If you can't even use your fists, you can still use your head.
